Details
In May 2016, the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas (MOPNG), introduced the "Pradhan Mantri Ujjawala Yojana 2.0" in India. The Pradhan Mantri Ujjawala Yojana (PMUY) is a scheme launched by the Government of India in 2016 to provide free LPG (liquefied petroleum gas) connections to women from below-poverty-line households.
The objective was to make clean cooking fuel such as LPG available to the rural and deprived households which were otherwise using traditional cooking fuels such as firewood, coal, cow-dung cakes, etc. The usage of traditional cooking fuels had detrimental impacts on the health of rural women as well as on the environment.
﻿
The target under the scheme was to release 8 Crore LPG Connections to the deprived households by March 2020.
On 7th September 2019, the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India handed over the 8th Crore LPG connection in Aurangabad, Maharashtra.
The release of 8 Crore LPG connections under the scheme has also helped in increasing the LPG coverage from 62% on 1st May 2016 to 99.8% on 1st April 2021.
Ujjwala 2.0: Additional allocation of 1.6 Crore LPG Connections under PMUY Scheme with special facility to migrant households. The scheme was launched in Mahoba, Uttar Pradesh by the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India, Shri. Narendra Modi.
Benefits
Cash assistance for PMUY connections is provided by the Government of India - Rs. 1600 (for a connection 14.2kg cylinder/ Rs. 1150 for a 5 kg cylinder). The cash assistance covers:
Security Deposit of Cylinder – Rs. 1250 for 14.2 kg cylinder/ Rs. 800 for 5 kg cylinder.
Pressure Regulator – Rs. 150.
LPG Hose – Rs. 100.
Domestic Gas Consumer Card – Rs. 25.
Inspection/ Installation/ Demonstration charges – Rs. 75.
Additionally, All PMUY beneficiaries will be provided with first LPG refill and Stove (hotplate) both free of cost along with their deposit-free connection by the Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs).
Eligibility
1. Adult women belong to any of the following categories.
SC Households
ST Households
Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Gramin)
Most Backward Classes
Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY)
Tea and Ex-Tea Garden tribes
Forest Dwellers
People residing on Islands and River Islands
SECC Households (AHL TIN)
Poor Household as per 14-point declaration
2. Applicant must have attained 18 years of age.
3. There should not be any other LPG connections in the same household.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: You can download Forms from the official website (given below) or get them from the nearest LPG distributor.
﻿﻿KYC Form﻿﻿
﻿Supplementary KYC Document & Undertaking﻿
ANNEXURE - I Self-declaration for Family Composition and Address for release  of new connection under PMUY (for Migrant only)﻿
ANNEXURE - II Mechanics Pre-Installation check of Customers Premises for LPG connection﻿﻿
﻿
Step 2: Fill out the application form with the required information, including personal details, bank account information, and LPG distributor preference.
Step 3: Attach the necessary documents along with the application form. The documents typically include proof of identity, proof of address, and proof of BPL category.
Step 4: Submit the completed application form along with the supporting documents to the nearest LPG distributor. 
Documents Required
Know Your Customer(KYC)
Ration Card issued by the State from which application is being made/ other State Govt. document certifying family composition/ Self-Declaration as per Annexure I (for migrant applicants)
Aadhaar of the beneficiary and adult family members appearing in the document at Sl. 2
Proof of Address - Aadhaar will be taken as Proof of Identity and Proof of Address if the connection is required in the same address. In that case, only Aadhaar is sufficient.
Bank Account Number and IFSC

Frequently Asked Questions:
1) Who is the eligible beneficiary under ujjwala 2.0?

- An adult woman belonging to a poor household and not having LPG connection in her household, will be eligible under UJJWALA 2.0. The beneficiaries should belong to any of the following categories:

1. Eligible as per SECC 2011 list
2. Belongs to SC/ST households, be a beneficiary of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY), Forest dwellers, Most Backward Classes (MBC), Tea and Ex-Tea Garden Tribes, People residing in riverIslands (Beneficiary will submit supporting document)
3. If she is not falling in the above 2 categories, then she can stake her claim to be a beneficiary under Poor household by submitting 14-point declaration (as per prescribed format)

2) Which Documents are mandatory to be submitted by applicant for enrolment under ujjwala 2.0?

- The applicant must provide following documents:

1. KYC as per the standard format carrying photograph of the applicant and duly signed.
2. POI (Proof of Identity)
3. POA (Proof of Address)
4. Aadhaar copy of Applicant,
5. Aadhaar copy of all adult family members as mentioned in Ration Card or similar document.
6. Bank account details of the applicant
7. Ration card or any other family document issued by State Govt. /District 
administration detailing household composition (such as Bhamashah Card in Rajasthan and Samagra Id in MP, Parivar Register of Uttar Pradesh, Parivar Pehchan Patra in Haryana, Rice Card of Andhra Pradesh or any other state specific card getting added later) of the identified household in which her name appears. In states, where the State Government portal has updated family details, a self signed copy of the printout from this portal can also be submitted by the beneficiary in lieu of ration card.
8. Self-declaration as per Annexure-I in lieu of Ration card for ascertaining family composition in case of Migrant Applicants.
9. Supporting Document, in case connection is applied under any of the seven categories (i.e. SC/ST households, beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) (Gramin), Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY), Forest dwellers, Most Backward Classes (MBC), Tea and Ex-Tea Garden Tribes, People residing in river Islands).
14-point declaration in support of Poor household duly signed by applicant as per standard format given.

3)If customer possess aadhaar card and connection to be released in the same address as mentioned in aadhaar card, can it be used as the POI and POA document?

- In case the Aadhaar card is having the address at which connection is to be released, it can be used both as the POI and POA.

4)What doccument can be produced as proof of Identity (pOI) and Proof of address( POA)?

1. Aadhaar Card of applicant will only be considered as Proof of Identity (POI) for applicants of all states except Assam and Meghalaya.
2. This would also serve the purpose of Proof of Address (POA) if the current address of applicant is same as per her Aadhaar.
3. In case, applicant address is different from that mentioned in Aadhaar card, then she can submit any other documents for POA as listed in the Annexure - A
4. For Assam and Meghalaya, where Aadhaar is not mandatory, applicant can submit, any other Proof of Identity as given in the below table.
5. In case of Migrants, they can submit any of the 25 documents mentioned below under list of PoA including self-declaration form as per Annexure - I.
6. Self-declaration form as per Annexure - I will not be considered for Non-Migrants.

5) How can one apply for LPG connection under Ujjwala 2.0?

Applicant can apply both online and offline.

1. Online – Customer can enroll through online application, or she can also contact her nearest CSC Centre for submitting the online application.
2. Offline – Customer can enroll by directly submitting the application at the distributorship.

6)What are the mandatory documents to be uploaded by the distributor for submission of KYC under ujjwala 2.0?

The following documents are to be uploaded by the distributor:

1. Proof of Identity (POI (any one as per list in the application form)
2. Proof of Address (POA) (any one as per list in the application form)
3. Aadhaar of Applicant (Aadhaar is not mandatory for Assam & Meghalaya, however Ration Card issued by State Government is required).
4. Ration Card or any other family document issued by State Govt. /District administration detailing family composition or Self Declaration of Family for migrants as per Annexure-I
5. 14-point declaration duly signed by applicant as per standard format given.
6. Supporting document in case, connection is applied under any of the seven categories as mentioned Q (1) (b).

Document to be collected and confirmed in the OMC portal by Distributor

1. Declaration from the customer for enabling existing KYCs in OMC portal to be Ujjwala 2.0 compliant. (Cleared KYCs under previous scheme - PMUY/EPMUY/EPMUY2 will be verified for eligibility under UJJWALA 2.0 scheme. These applicants have to submit self - Declaration from the customer).
2. Pre-Installation Check Report of customer’s premises.

7) If the applicant is unable to submit aadhaar card of any adult family member whose name is appearing in ration card or equivalent document issued by state department, will she be enrolled under ujjwala 2.0?

Suchbeneficiaries cannotbeenrolled.TheDistributor has to make efforts in getting the Aadhaar enrolment of such adults in the family and show receipt of same, applicant can be enrolled under UJJWALA 2.0. Exemption will be provided only in case of death of any adult family member or separation of any family member due to marriage etc. with submission of documentary proof like death certificate, marriage certificate etc.

8)What is the criterion to ascertain a poor household under ujjwala 2.0?

The 14-point declaration submitted by the applicant is the basic criteria to consider it as eligible Poor household under UJJWALA 2.0. Thus, it is mandatory for all applicants.

9)What type of ration card needd to be submitted by applicant?

As Ration Card is only for the purpose of identifying the family Composition of the beneficiary any type of Ration card either APL or BPL will be considered.

10)Whether a connection can be given to a female who is claiming to be single member in the household or other members of the family who are minors?

Yes, if there are supporting documents viz.Ration Card confirming single adult member in the family. In case additional adult members are shown in the Ration Card, then Death certificate in case of the deceased family member or marriage certificate for member moved out of the family should be attached.

11)PMUY connection can be released to poor household with no female adult member?

No. PMUY connection can be released in the name of adult female member of the Poor household only.

12)Is aadhaar Authentication (E-KYC) is mandatory for connections enrolled under ujjwala 2.0? if so, how it is carried out?

Yes. Aadhaar authentication will be carried out through Biometric or Mobile OTP based, for the connections enrolled under Ujjwala 2.0. Aadhaar authentication is optional only in the state of Assam and Meghalaya.