Details
An Accident Insurance Scheme offering accidental death and disability cover for death or disability on account of an accident.
Premium:
Rs.20/- per annum per member. The premium will be deducted from the account holder’s bank / Post office account through ‘auto debit’ facility on or before 1st June of each annual coverage period under the scheme. 
Coverage Duration:
Coverage under PMJJBY is valid for one year from 1st June to 31st May on payment of annual premium.
Accident cover assurance termination:
The accident cover of the member shall terminate / be restricted accordingly on any of the following events:
•	On attaining age 70 years (age nearer birth day).
•	Closure of account with the Bank or insufficiency of balance to keep the insurance in force.
In case a member is covered under PMSBY through more than one account and premium is received by insurance company inadvertently, insurance cover will be restricted to Rs. 2 lakh.
Benefits
On Death- the Nominee shall get Rs. 2 Lakhs.
Total and irrecoverable loss of both eyes or loss of use of both hands or feet or loss of sight of one eye and loss of use of hand or foot-  Subscriber shall get Rs. 2 Lakhs.
Total and irrecoverable loss of sight of one eye or loss of use of one hand or foot –subscriber shall get Rs. 1 Lakh.
Eligibility
Individual bank account holders of participating banks aged between 18 years (completed) and 70 years (age nearer birthday) who give their consent to join / enable auto-debit, will be enrolled into the scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 01: In order to enrol in PMSBY offline, one can visit the bank branch where one has a savings account or the candidate can visit the official site: https://jansuraksha.gov.in/Forms-PMSBY.aspx to download the form. 
Step 02: After downloading the application form , candidate can fill in all the details and submit  them to the bank along with the  required documents.
Step 03: Once it is successfully submitted , subscriber will get an Acknowledgement Slip Cum Certificate of Insurance.
Contact:
State wise tollfree number - https://jansuraksha.gov.in/files/STATEWISETOLLFREE.pdf ﻿
National Toll Free Number - 1800-180-1111 / 1800-110-001


RULES FOR THE PRADHAN MANTRI SURAKSHA BIMA YOJANA
(With effect from 1.6.2022)
DETAILS OF THE SCHEME:
PMSBY is an Accident Insurance Scheme offering accidental death and disability
cover for death or disability on account of an accident. It would be a one-year cover,
renewable from year to year. The scheme would be offered / administered through
Public Sector General Insurance Companies (PSGICs) and other General Insurance
companies willing to offer the product on similar terms with necessary approvals and
tie up with Banks / Post office for this purpose. Participating banks / Post office will
be free to engage any such insurance company for implementing the scheme for their
subscribers.
Scope of coverage: All individual bank/ Post office account holders in the age
group of 18 to 70 years in participating banks/ Post office will be entitled to join. In
case of multiple bank/ Post office accounts held by an individual in one or different
banks/ Post office, the person would be eligible to join the scheme through one bank
/ Post office account only. Aadhar would be the primary KYC for the bank/ Post
office account.
Enrolment Modality / Period: The cover shall be for the one-year period
stretching from 1st June to 31st May for which option to join / pay by auto-debit
from the designated bank/ Post office account on the prescribed forms will be
required to be given by 31st May of every year. Joining subsequently on payment of
full annual premium would be possible. However, applicants may give an indefinite /
longer option for enrolment / auto-debit, subject to continuation of the scheme with
terms as may be revised on the basis of past experience. Individuals who exit the
scheme at any point may re-join the scheme in future years through the above
modality. New entrants into the eligible category from year to year or currently
eligible individuals who did not join earlier shall be able to join in future years while
the scheme is continuing.
Benefits: As per the following table:
Table of Benefits Sum Insured
a Death Rs. 2 Lakh
b Total and irrecoverable loss of both eyes or loss of use of
both hands or feet or loss of sight of one eye and loss of
use of hand or foot
Rs. 2 Lakh
c Total and irrecoverable loss of sight of one eye or loss of
use of one hand or foot
Rs. 1 Lakh
Premium: Rs. 20/- per annum per member. The premium will be deducted from the
account holder’s bank/ Post office account through ‘auto debit’ facility in one
instalment on or before 1 st June of each annual coverage period under the scheme.
However, in cases where auto debit takes place after 1st June, the cover shall
commence from the date of auto debit of premium by Bank/ Post office.
The premium would be reviewed based on annual claims experience.
Eligibility Conditions: Individual bank/ Post office account holders of participating
banks/ Post office aged between 18 years (completed) and 70 years (age nearer
birthday) who give their consent to join / enable auto-debit, as per the above
modality, will be enrolled into the scheme.
Master Policy Holder: Participating Bank/ Post office will be the Master policy
holder on behalf of the participating subscribers. A simple and subscriber friendly
administration & claim settlement process has been finalized by the respective general
insurance company in consultation with the participating Banks.
Termination of cover: The accident cover for the member shall terminate on any of
the following events and no benefit will be payable there under:
1) On attaining age 70 years (age nearest birthday).
2) Closure of account with the Bank/ Post office or insufficiency of balance to keep
the insurance in force.
3) In case a member is covered through more than one account and premium is
received by the Insurance Company inadvertently, insurance cover will be restricted
to one bank/ Post office account only and the premium paid for duplicate
insurance(s) shall be liable to be forfeited.
4) If the insurance cover is ceased due to any technical reasons such as insufficient
balance on due date or due to any administrative issues, the same can be reinstated on
receipt of full annual premium, subject to conditions that may be laid down. During
this period, the risk cover will be suspended and reinstatement of risk cover will be at
the sole discretion of Insurance Company.
5) Participating banks will deduct the premium amount in the same month when the
auto debit option is given, preferably in May of every year, and remit the amount due
to the Insurance Company in that month itself.
Administration: The scheme, subject to the above, will be administered as per the
standard procedure stipulated by the Insurance Company. The data flow process and
data proforma will be provided separately.
It will be the responsibility of the participating bank/ Post office to recover the
appropriate annual premium from the account holders within the prescribed period
through ‘auto-debit’ process.
Enrolment form / Auto-debit authorization in the prescribed proforma shall be
obtained and retained by the participating bank/ Post office. In case of claim, the
Insurance Company may seek submission of the same. Insurance Company reserves
the right to call for these documents at any point of time.
The acknowledgement slip may be made into an acknowledgement slip-cumcertificate of insurance.
The scheme is liable to be discontinued prior to commencement of a new future
renewal date if circumstances so require.
Appropriation of Premium:
1) Insurance Premium payable to Insurance Company: Rs. 20/- per annum per
member
2) Commission payable to Business Correspondents, agents, etc. by the insurer:
Re.1/- per member (for new enrolments only).
3) Administrative expenses payable to participating Bank by insurer: Re.1/- per
annum per member
Note: The amount of commission payable to Business Correspondents, agents, etc.
as specified in item 2) saved in case of voluntary enrolment by an accountholder
through electronic means shall be passed on as a benefit to the subscriber by
correspondingly reducing the amount of the Insurance Premium payable specified in
item 1). 

FAQs:

1)Is There Any Provision For Reimbursement of Hospitalization expenses following accident Resulting In Death Or Disablement?
- No. 

2)Who Can Claim Insurance Benefit In Case Of Death Of The Bank Account Holder Who Gave The Enrolment Form?
- In case of death of the Account holder who enrolled in the scheme, claim can be filed by the nominee/appointee as per the enrolment form or by the legal heir/s in case there is no nomination made by the subscriber bank account holder. 

3) What Is The Mode Of Payment Of The Claim Amount?
- Disability Claim will be credited in the bank account of the insured bank account holder. Death claims will be remitted to the bank account of the nominee / legal heir(s).

4)Will The Family Get Insurance Benefit If The Account Holder Commits Suicide?
- No. 

5)What Benefit Will Be Payable if A Person Suffers Partial Disability Without Irrecoverable Loss Of Sight Of One Eye Or Loss Of Use Of One Hand Or Foot?
-No benefit will be payable.

6)If The Insured Is Missing And Death Is Not Confirmed, Will The Legal Heirs Get Benefit Of Insurance?
- PMSBY covers deaths confirmed by documentary evidence to have been caused by accident.
