Stand-Up India Scheme Features
Title of the Scheme
Stand-Up India Scheme for financing SC/ST and/or Women Entrepreneurs.
Objective
The objective of the Stand-Up India scheme is to facilitate bank loans between  10 lakh and 
1 Crore to at least one Scheduled Caste (SC) or Scheduled Tribe (ST) borrower and at least
one woman borrower per bank branch for setting up a greenfield enterprise. This enterprise
may be in manufacturing, services or the trading sector. In case of non-individual enterprises
at least 51% of the shareholding and controlling stake should be held by either an SC/ST or
Woman entrepreneur.
Eligibility
1.SC/ST and/or woman entrepreneurs, above 18 years of age.
2.Loans under the scheme is available for only green field project. Green field signifies, in
this context, the first time venture of the beneficiary in the manufacturing or services or
trading sector.
3. In case of non-individual enterprises, 51% of the shareholding and controlling stake should be
held by either SC/ST and/or Women Entrepreneur.
4.Borrower should not be in default to any bank/financial institution.
Nature of Loan
Composite loan (inclusive of term loan and working capital) between  10 lakh and upto  100
lakh.
Purpose of Loan
For setting up a new enterprise in manufacturing, trading or services sector by SC/ST/Women
entrepreneur.
Size of Loan
Composite loan of 75% of the project cost inclusive of term loan and working capital. The
stipulation of the loan being expected to cover 75% of the project cost would not apply if the
borrower’s contribution along with convergence support from any other schemes exceeds
25% of the project cost.
Interest Rate
The rate of interest would be lowest applicable rate of the bank for that category (rating category)
not to exceed (base rate (MCLR) + 3%+ tenor premium).
Security
Besides primary security, the loan may be secured by collateral security or guarantee of
Credit Guarantee Fund Scheme for Stand-Up India Loans (CGFSIL) as decided by the
banks.
Repayment
The loan is repayable in 7 years with a maximum moratorium period of 18 months.
Working Capital
For drawal of Working capital upto  10 lakh, the same may be sanctioned by way of
overdraft. Rupay debit card to be issued for convenience of the borrower. Working capital
limit above  10 lakh to be sanctioned by way of Cash Credit limit.
Margin Money
The Scheme envisages 25% margin money which can be provided in convergence with eligible
Central / State schemes. While such schemes can be drawn upon for availing admissible
subsidies or for meeting margin money requirements, in all cases, the borrower shall be
required to bring in minimum of 10% of the project cost as own contribution.
STAND-UP INDIA SCHEME WOULD BE OPERATED BY ALL THE BRANCHES OF
SCHEDULED COMMERCIAL BANKS IN INDIA.
 FAQ:
 Know the FAQ on eligibility FAQ about Stand-up India Loan schemes to Women, SC/ST
 entrepreneurs.

1. What is the objective of “Stand-Up India” Scheme?
The objective of the Stand-Up India scheme is to facilitate bank loans between 10 lakh and 1
Crore to at least one Scheduled Caste (SC) or Scheduled Tribe (ST) borrower and at least one
woman borrower per bank branch for setting up a greenfield enterprise.
This enterprise may be in manufacturing, services or the trading sector. In case of nonindividual enterprises at least 51% of the shareholding and controlling stake should be held by
either an SC/ST or Woman entrepreneur.
2. What is the purpose of the loan under “Stand-Up India” Scheme?
The scheme is for setting up a new enterprise in manufacturing, trading or services sector by
SC/ST/Women entrepreneur.
3. What are the schemes for loan requirement upto 10 lakh?
For loans below 10 lakh, banks are already lending under their existing schemes. Further,
MUDRA Ltd. also operates 3 schemes namely Shishu/Kishore/Tarun through banks for loans
upto 10 lakh.
Visit www.mudra.org.in for further details.
4. Who are the target clients under Stand-Up India Scheme / what kind of borrowers are
eligible for loans?
SC/ST and/or Women entrepreneurs setting up new enterprises are eligible for availing loans
under Stand-Up India Scheme. Typically projects in the manufacturing, trading and service
sector would be eligible for coverage under the scheme.
5. What will be the nature of loan under the Stand-Up India Scheme?
Composite loan (inclusive of term loan and working capital) between 10 lakh and upto 100 lakh
representing upto 75% of the project cost would be eligible.
6. What is the size of the loan under the Stand-Up India Scheme?
Composite loan (inclusive of term loan and working capital) between 10 lakh and upto 100 lakh
would be eligible
7. What is the rate of interest charged under the Stand-Up India Scheme?
The rate of interest would be lowest applicable rate of the bank for that category (rating
category) not to exceed (base rate (MCLR) + 3%+ tenor premium).
8. What will be the security requirement under the Stand-Up India Scheme?
In addition to mortgage/hypothecation of Primary Asset acquired out of loan, the loan may also
be secured by collateral security or guarantee of Credit Guarantee Scheme for Stand-Up India
Loans (CGSSI) as decided by the banks.
9. Who are the eligible lending institutions for extending loans under the Scheme?
All branches of Scheduled Commercial Banks located across the country.
10. What is the repayment tenure under the Scheme?
The repayment period of the composite loan is to be fixed depending upon nature of activity and
useful life of assets purchased with bank loan but not to exceed 7 years with a maximum
moratorium period of 18 months.
11. What are the Salient Features of the Credit Guarantee Fund Scheme for Stand-Up
India Loans (CGFSIL)?
Eligibility – Stand-Up India Loans of over 10 lakh and upto 100 lakh extended by eligible
Lending Institution(s) to an eligible borrower on or after entering into an agreement with National
Credit Guarantee Trustee Company (NCGTC).
 Guarantee Fee
– Annual Guarantee Fee (AGF) of 0.85% p.a. on the credit facility sanctioned (comprising term
loan and / or working capital facility).
Guarantee Fee shall be paid upfront to the Trust by the eligible institution availing of the
guarantee and to be shared equally between bank and the borrower.
12. What is the Difference between Stand-Up India Scheme and SMILE Scheme?
SMILE Scheme is operated only through SIDBI for investment in projects coming up in 25
identified sectors under the Make in India programme for existing and new units. The support is
in the nature of quasi equity and term loan on relatively soft terms, with the minimum term loan
size for new units at 25 lakh.
Stand-Up India scheme is proposed to be operated through 1.25 lakh bank branches in the
country.
The loans would be above 10 lakh and upto 100 lakh specifically for SC/ST/Women
entrepreneurs setting up green field projects.
13. What is the Differece between Stand-Up India Scheme and Start Up India Scheme?
Stand-Up India Scheme is intended to support SC/ST/Women entrepreneurs to set up a green
field projects through bank branches in India while Start Up India Scheme aims to boost
innovative and technology led enterprises for new/existing enterprises.
14. What will be the other benefits under the Stand-Up India Loan Scheme?
Apart from linking prospective borrowers to banks for loans , the web portal designed by SIDBI
for Stand-Up India Scheme also provides handholding support through a network of agencies
engaged in training, skill development, mentoring, project report preparation, application filling,
work shed/utility support services, subsidy schemes etc.
15. What is the mechanism for identification of the beneficiary under the Scheme?
The beneficiaries could be walk-in customers for a bank, online applicants or trainees from
various government and non-government agencies engaged in providing vocation training,
Entrepreneurship Development Programs, Financial training etc.
16. Whether House wife women or SC/ST Unemployed eligible for Stand-Up India Loan
Schemes ?
Stand-Up India Scheme is a special scheme for women entrepreneu Therefore, House wife can
avail the facilities under the scheme as per your requirements provided the composite
loan amount ranges between 10 lakh to 100 lakh. They may approach a bank branch nearest to
you for more details or access the Stand-Up India portal for more details.
Composite Loans between 10 lakh to 100 lakh for setting up a green field project is eligible for
coverage under Stand-Up India Scheme subject to compliance with other requirements of the
bank under the scheme. Kindly approach your nearest bank branch or access the Stand-Up
India portal for more details.
Or Apply Through Portal : www.standupmitra.in
17. What is Hand-holding Support?
Any new entrepreneur requires guidance in his endeavor to set up his or her
business enterprise starting from training to filling up loan applications as per bank
requirements.
This portal facilitates by providing step by step guidance for connecting to various agencies with
specific expertise viz. Skilling Centres, Mentorship support, Entrepreneurship Development
Program Centres, District Industries Centre, together with addresses and contact number.
18. How do I get handholding support?
You may navigate through the portal or seek assistance from connect centre nearest to you to
help you identify the nature of handholding support required. Broadly handholding support has
been segregated in 7 areas of expertise viz. Skilling (Vocational), Financial Literacy training,
Entrepreneurship Development Program, Mentoring, Project Report Preparation, Loan
Application filling, Work sheds from DICs and Margin Money for Subsidy Support.
19. Do I have to pay for the training programs?
If so, how much. Yes. You have to pay for the training program to the agency directly as per
their applicable fee structure.

20. In case loan proposal is not approved by the Bank ?
Please get in touch with your preferred banker (chosen by you) to understand why the proposal
was not approved and based on that take corrective action to make the proposal credit worthy.
21. In case collateral offered by the borrower do he/she need to compulsorily opt
for credit guarantee cover for the loan under Stand-Up India?
No. There is no compulsion for securing the loan only by way of Credit Guarantee Cover. You
may opt for securing the loan by way of collateral security also. Please discuss this aspect with
your banker.